CS505 Lecture 22 Slide View
The shared Computing cluster is very fast once you set it up. It's a fairly laborious process to set up but once you doGpt2 4 handles 26 languages so it doesn't have a separate expert for each language. Air travels about 768 miles an hour aA neural network can be used to process audio signals in real-time. 1 second 44,100 integers can be processed with a neural"There's no sense in which you can say instantaneously looking at this array you have all this information instantaneously it's one oneSpectrograms are very easy to make all python is full libraries for doing this. You can just take a signal this x is aThe network is a CN convolutional noral network but you can treat it as a as a recognizing a certain kind of shape in

CS505 Lecture 23 Full View
Each of these is a little window of time like 50 milliseconds like a 20th of a second. These units are actually mels whichThe schah is a closed sound so it has more high frequencies in it love this is called the schah very abbreviated love itThe D backwards is the e that's an e b. For male voices at least the 500 Hertz was the first forment ofThe Spectr is a graph that collapses harmonics or overtones into a single node. Guitar strings have harmonics which are multiples"Transformers of these I wouldn't say black boxes but they're you know they do a lot of processing and they didn't haveOn Tuesday I'll say exactly what material will be covered. I feel like probably people can benefit from specifically knowing exactly what they can expect

CS505 Lecture 24 Slide View
Transformers creator says the idea for the movie came from a conversation about engrs and engr were the germ of an idea that cameYou can basically use the same techniques we used for generative models to create Melodies chord sequences entire compositions. One of the examples it"I always recommend this to people that if there's a project  I mean if you want to learn something figure out something cool to

CS505 Lecture 24 Full View
Transformers creator says the idea for the movie came from a conversation about engrs and engr were the germ of an idea that cameYou can basically use the same techniques we used for generative models to create Melodies chord sequences entire compositions. One of the examples it"I always recommend this to people that if there's a project  I mean if you want to learn something figure out something cool to

CS505 Lecture 23 Slide View
We pre-process the  audio signal into a two-dimensional Matrix of logarithmically scaled amplitudes and frequencies. TheEvery word General has a a a syllable that is stressed and it's long enough there a secondary one. Pitch accent  for lexChinese is a different language to English. There are pitch differences in questions. It is possible to ask a question in Chinese without saying itGuitar strings have harmonics which are multiples of the main frequency. Every note that sounds at a particular frequency has not Echo"Transformers of these I wouldn't say black boxes but they're you know they do a lot of processing and they didn't have"I e spe spee spe for spe absolutely" "I every en comp to much in my mind love. but I guess the

CS505 Lecture 22 Full View
Each of these is a little window of time like 50 milliseconds like a 20th of a second. These units are actually mels whichPitch accent  for lexical stress. Pitch  F0 the fundamental frequency is sort of your natural frequency. If you want toThe D backwards is the e that's an e b. For male voices at least the 500 Hertz was the first forment ofThe Spectr is a graph that collapses harmonics or overtones into a single node. Guitar strings have harmonics which are multiples"We wanted to take explicit song lyrics and then convert into something that's sensible," says director. Next up, we'll talk about"I will also be holding a review session look at On Tuesday I'll say exactly what material will be covered" "I feel like

CS505 Guest Lecture  Full View
R&D CER was to figure out how we could do this. and we got this done in three months. summarize: IThe play Space is really like a jungle gym for computer scientists out in California. "I always want to say to people life is lifeAllo DB is an example of a post press database that has a vector storage now for information that you're going to be getting outMulti-turn is similar to what you see with chat Bots and dialogue flow only this is all happening behind the scenes before it gets toThere were probably 35 classifications right and without any additional fine tuning it was able to identify given the right prom whether that is right."Dolly" is an album of songs by American singer-songwriter Dolly Gallagher. The album was released on November 1,

CS505 Guest Lecture 21 Slide View
Sunnyvale, California, is the home of Google's headquarters. The area is known for being a hotbed of tech innovation.The play Space is really like a jungle gym for computer scientists out in California. "I always want to say to people life is lifeAllo DB is an example of a post press database that has a vector storage now for information that you're going to be getting outMulti-turn is similar to what you see with chat Bots and dialogue flow only this is all happening behind the scenes before it gets toThere were probably 35 classifications right and without any additional fine tuning it was able to identify given the right prom whether that is right."It's pretty clear that what you're getting behavior is  is the basis of moor components which is a b b c therefore

CS505 Lecture 21 Slide View
This week's episode of The Transformer Family is the first in a new series. The series premieres on Friday, September 14.The way in the training is critical to I mean you expect this I we spend so much time on the training and thinking about it.GPS is about 10 times bigger than gpt1. Gpt1 had 512 in the input sequence. In gpt2 theyThe original Transformer was done for machine translation tests French to English English to Latin whatever. "They used colossal clean crawled Corpus the CT5 did 88.9 almost Han level comprehension if you think back to a if you're interested in chess. T5 beat hNLP is about building a knowledge graph or a relationship graph so trying to understand you know what a mammal is. You want to basically

CS505 Lecture 21 Full View
This week's episode of The Transformer Family is the first in a new series. The series premieres on Friday, September 14.The way in the training is critical to I mean you expect this I we spend so much time on the training and thinking about it.GPS is about 10 times bigger than gpt1. Gpt1 had 512 in the input sequence. In gpt2 theySoBert was trained on the Clos Tex task. The task is to take a span of text a phrase and replace it byT5 did 88.9 almost Han level comprehension if you think back to a if you're interested in chess. T5 beat hThe ideal thing would be the probability in this data. summarize: You rank them with take this crank it into the into the  pack

CS505 Lecture 20 Full View
Next semester we're going to kind of abstract away from the implementation a bit and think of these as functions. that an input and some"She was just astronomically ahead of all the other candidates we're so luy to get her," he says. "WeGPT is an example of the decoder based method and T5 is an examples of the original encoder decoder. Transformers areSmaller networks don't get trained on the original dat so much the loss Doesn't Really Happen by just having a smaller Network thatThe program is based on a CS sequence. It is trained on a series of sequences. The results are based on the sequence and theThe Corpus is a set of sentences that are placed next to each other. It is used to help students with reading comprehension and vocabulary.RNN is a type of computer vision system. It can be used to predict future events. It uses a series of sequences to predictNetwork will learn that when you get to an end an end symbol. It will learn what happens at the end of sentences you start aSugg: "When I first read it I said oh. POS Sugg I'm going to try but L said that was a

CS505 Lecture 20 Slide View
Next semester we're going to kind of abstract away from the implementation a little bit and think of these as functions. that an input and"She was just astronomically ahead of all the other candidates we're so luy to get her," he says. "IGPT is an example of the decoder based method and T5 is an examples of the original encoder decoder. Transformers areSmaller networks don't get trained on the original dat so much the loss Doesn't Really Happen by just having a smaller Network thatThe program is based on a CS sequence. It is trained on a series of sequences. The results are based on the sequence and theThe Corpus is a set of sentences that are placed next to each other. The knowledge in it is how language Works using first of allRNN is a type of computer vision system. It can be used to predict future events. It uses a series of sequences to predictNetwork will learn that when you get to an end an end symbol. It will learn what happens at the end of sentences you start aSugg: "When I first read it I said oh. POS Sugg I'm going to try but L said that was a

CS505 Lecture 19 Full View
Samp sampling refers to the following situation. Everybody in my family is sick with Co and Thanksgiving is cancelled we're not doing we'reThe temperature or the topk are two of the most commonly used sampling functions. NLP is interesting is the most common one 51%Eight puppies are trying to figure out relationships between all the words. This is trained on a large amount of data so then it it knowsThe second word produced here can use it's it's not fed back in like we saw in previous designs. As it goes through it"You're simultaneously not even in a you can't even say that it's bir directional it's unidirectional you know orThe program was trained on the engram model. It learned about the brown Corps, but wanted to know more about Donald Trp.It's a restricted model. it doesn't have everything connecting to everything else they restrict it in such a way that it is still goingAs long as you ask it you could ask it to produce a sentence that's characters a th words WR. summarize: "I just"Apparently the whole class has this it's funny. I've been my partner is so we I have not a cold just nice.

CS505 Lecture 19 Slide View
Samp sampling refers to the following situation. Everybody in my family is sick with Co and Thanksgiving is cancelled we're not doing we'reThe temperature or the topk are two of the most commonly used sampling functions. NLP is interesting is the most common one 51%Eight puppies are trying to figure out relationships between all the words. This is trained on a large amount of data so then it it knowsThe second word produced here can use it's it's not fed back in like we saw in previous designs. As it goes through it"You're simultaneously not even in a you can't even say that it's bir directional it's unidirectional you know orThe program was trained on the engram model. It learned about the brown Corps, but wanted to know more about Donald Trp.It's a restricted model. it doesn't have everything connecting to everything else they restrict it in such a way that it is still going"I just I just ped see and then. and then I'm sorry I thought you were talking about the third. and I just"Apparently the whole class has this it's funny. I've been my partner is so we I have not a cold just nice.

CS505 Lecture 18 Slide View
CNN's John Sutter looks at the history of deep-sea computing. He says the technology was developed in the 1970s and 1980"It took a very long time for people to to figure this all out and it took the hardware so that people could run these experimentsThe order of words in a sentence for a neural network is invariant. The network doesn't care about order but we need to talkThe original paper that introduced Transformers was resurrected. Generalizing is not memorizing but generalizing and when you do this it doesn't workThe code for this is very very simple you simply do this  addition you have this lookup table which gives you the embedding. TheA batch 512 is the width for one input but you've got to do it 512 times for this fixed sequence. It sounds like youCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aEight separate than separate feed forward Network that analyze separately eight different ways analyzing knows it's just eight different ches to learn something. ""It's a thousand hours of sheer boredom and 30 seconds of sheer Terror every once in a while anyway let's see if it works

CS505 Lecture 18 Full View
CNN's John Sutter looks at the history of deep-sea computing. He says the technology was developed in the 1970s and 1980"It took a very long time for people to to figure this all out and it took the hardware so that people could run these experimentsThe order of words in a sentence for a neural network is invariant. The network doesn't care about order but we need to talkThe original paper that introduced Transformers was resurrected. Generalizing is not memorizing but generalizing and when you do this it doesn't workThe embedding is based on the word 0 1 2 and the dimension of the word. If the dimension is four you get the embedA batch 512 is the width for one input but you've got to do it 512 times for this fixed sequence. It sounds like youThe Neal Network is a network of computer networks. The network is used to exchange data between computers. It is also used to share dataEight separate than separate feed forward Network that analyze separately eight different ways analyzing knows it's just eight different ches to learn something. ""It's a thousand hours of sheer boredom and 30 seconds of sheer Terror every once in a while anyway let's see if it works

CS 505 Lecture 17 (Zoom Recording)
The value in the convolution kernel start out random and they're parameters that are learned. The hyperparameters are the size of theThe kernel size of lyette 5 is 5 by five with 2 by two pooling. With more and more maps you can see the"It would have been nice if we had more plays from Shakespeare's time or more Elizabethan English to train to understand what this doesGet embeddings is a way to turn any dictionary into a default. The idea is that what does get do you can use withThere's a tradeoff between the discriminative power in how many neurons and when you have a complicated data set. Overfitting is

CS505 Lecture 16 Slide View
Cross validation is an alternative to the static strategy that we used in the last homework. There's no absolute difference if you always remember toP torch is a python tool that lets you test your code. The program downloads the Corpus to a location in your machine. It willPickle can be downloaded from the App Store or the Google Play Store. It is free to download and use and can be pre-The training data in this case was broken up into five different  they're called folds kfold validations. Keep a running s ofYou don't want the parameters to have a huge scale. What you're going to do is penalize the model if it has reallyIt works well in a network unlike a classroom or a company and it's exceedingly simple. It's trivial it's trivial look let youThe training loss is always if you did everything right going to go down because you're memorizing more and more the data. and thenAll of those are going to be done in parallel on a GPU. I usually use 64 or 128 depending on what I'm doing.

CS505 Lecture 16 Full View
Cross validation is an alternative to the static strategy that we used in the last homework. There's no absolute difference if you always remember toP torch is a python tool that lets you test your code. The program downloads the Corpus to a location in your machine. It willPickle can be downloaded from the App Store or the Google Play Store. It is free to download and use and can be installed onThe training data in this case was broken up into five different  they're called folds kfold validations. Keep a running s ofYou don't want the parameters to have a huge scale. What you're going to do is penalize the model if it has reallyIt works well in a network unlike a classroom or a company and it's exceedingly simple. It's trivial it's trivial look let youThe training loss is always if you did everything right going to go down because you're memorizing more and more the data. and thenA short answer I'm look at how much value you added to what you got online. It's also question dat you're using you

CS505 Lecture 15 Full View
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aBoth of them are very storage intensive. Many times these these methods are are used in pre-trained mode. The preprocessing cost isCNN.com's John Sutter talks about embedding. Sutter: "This is going to have know thousands probably as large asThe Corpus was used to create a list of words that could be translated into different languages. The Corpus would then spit the words into a"We're going to make that transition between the encoder and the decoder more subtle and allow more interaction between the two" "R is a language that can be used to train computers. It can also be used as a tool to help people understand other languages.

CS505 Lecture 15 Slide View
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aBoth of them are very storage intensive. Many times these these methods are are used in pre-trained mode. The preprocessing cost isThe embedding code is shared between training examples from the same paragraph. CNN.com's John Sutter talks about embedding. SAverage word edings are based on word to back. They are then refined by using docent frequencies and PCA to reduce dimensionalityThe decoder goes through right generates a word and then passes a context Vector it passes the next one. summarize: In French in RomanceR is a language that can be used to train computers. It can also be used as a tool to help people understand other languages.

CS505 Lecture 14 Full View
The memory is recording something based what happened past. and then this loops around you put it back in the context and the activation come backWelsh was wild with individual differences in individual han strength is so forth individual differences con reactivity 11 okay. finished Welsh was onCNN.com will be doing static and contextual embeddings. We're going to look at contextual embeds of Elmo or burCNN.com is training a network to learn the cooccurrence Matrix. The network is being taught to use the co-occurrencePCA can be used to compress an image. PCA can also be used in an auto encoder to reduce the complexity of theThe network can be trained by giving it examples of negatives and positives. It can also be penalized if it doesn't do what it"I'm still having trouble  I'm having issues with the graph in One D the DIY word embeddings I'm really conf

CS505 Lecture 14 Slide View
The memory is recording something based on what happened past. and then this loops around you put it back in the context and the activation comeWelsh was wild with individual differences in individual han strength is so forth individual differences con reactivity 11 okay. finished Welsh was onCNN.com will be doing static and contextual embeddings. We're going to look at contextual embeds of Elmo or burCNN.com is training a network to learn the cooccurrence Matrix. The network is being taught to use the co-occurrencePCA can be used to compress an image. PCA can also be used in an auto encoder to reduce the complexity of theThe network can be trained by giving it examples of negatives and positives. It can also be penalized if it doesn't do what itThere's the whole question what do you do with unknown words. and we talked about this before with smoothing right. and you can

CS505 Lecture 13 Full View
The walk through for the for the  second problem or the delay is in the P torch tutorial the zoom tutorial that I posted okay nowGPS used to call a road in North Carolina Lead Mine Road. After two years, the GPS fixed itself and now calls it LeadThe code is very simple. We compare the label with the actual label. Figure out what the difference is how much error there is andThe price of a round trip from Denver to San Francisco is much higher than it was in the past. American Airlines is the only airlineThe first thing you pick a length and that's going to be consistent throughout all the training so there's not this issue of different lengthsThere's a difference between the two there's an output and there's a memory for the simpler ones grus and R basic rnmI reran all my visualizations thinking. oh I'll have them fresh and pretty for you. but I mostly just want you to

CS505 Lecture 13 Slide View
The walk through for the for the  second problem or the delay is in the P torch tutorial the zoom tutorial that I posted okay nowGPS used to call a road in North Carolina Lead Mine Road. After two years, the GPS fixed itself and now calls it LeadThe code is very simple. We compare the label with the actual label. Figure out what the difference is how much error there is andThe price of a round trip from Denver to San Francisco is about $1,200. American Airlines is the largest carrier in the UnitedThe first thing you pick a length and that's going to be consistent throughout all the training so there's not this issue of different lengthsThere's a difference between the two there's an output and there's a memory for the simpler ones grus and R basic rnmI reran all my visualizations thinking. oh I'll have them fresh and pretty for you. but I mostly just want you to

CS505 Lecture 12 Slide View
The U.S. government is developing a new system for speech tagging. It will use language models to tag speech. The U.Linguists love to talk about the problem of keeping track of long sentences. "Sometimes these long sentences you've got to keep trackCNN.com's John Sutter looks at how neurons are processed in the brain. Sutter: "What they've done is add"We want to kind of amorphize it or we want to say oh there's an algorithm it must be this unfortunately it'sCNN.com has created a language translator to help people understand each other's English sentences. A caption is sent to a CNN.comThe layers don't care if I change the Vari in fact they like it. The next layer doesn't actually care it just wants toThe project is part of a course at MIT called AI Venture Studios. Currently we're just doing a large langage model we collecting data

CS505 Lecture 12 Full View
The U.S. government is developing a new system for speech tagging. It will use language models to tag speech. The U.Linguists love to talk about the problem of keeping track of long sentences. "Sometimes these long sentences you've got to keep trackCNN.com's John Sutter looks at how neurons are processed in the brain. Sutter: "What they've done is addThe data comes in gets manipulated by the recurrent layer and then it's going to go through a couple of feet forward layers. "ForCNN.com has created a language translator to help people understand each other's English sentences. CNN.com is a cloud-based socialThe author trained his characters through War and Peace. He then trained them through Warren PE, which is like 1200 pages long. The powerThe project is part of a course at MIT called AI Venture Studios. Currently we're just doing a large langage model we collecting dataiide: I need to think about it come by off. summarize: but it seems your kishna kishNA that's

CS 505 HW 04 Problem 2 Walkthrough
The main thing I just want to show you is how to deal with the first part of it which is preparing the data. If youCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aThe embedding is going to give the embedding bang bang bang one after the other for all of the words that are in the text

HW 04 Problem 1 Walkthrough
Shakespeare's play was first performed in London in 1642. The words "Shakespeare" and "Shirley" were addedWhen you instantiate you said okay here's our PCA function. and then  it's actually a an object right a a classThe ordering is the same for a dictionary so you can do this or you can go through and do it in the order of play attributesThe idea here is that you will create a word word Matrix again. I recommend that you do this first by making a dictionary. and"Midsmer Night Dream" is a new version of a classic children's story. The story has been expanded to make it easier

CS 505 Lecture 11
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a"These systems get integrated into our infrastructure and there are serious consequences to mistakes" "I mean. yeah I guess that's If youThe Baseline model would say that all samples are not spam. It would be wrong it would be correct 70% of the time.The first big milestone of a learn machine learning project is getting a model that has generalization power. A robust fit is that manifold whichThere are more sensitive tests  in torch in various languages are ways to do that P torch there you could just look up early stopping P"I've already had people coming to me just make an appointment we'll get on Zoom. and we'll talk about what your interests

CS 505 Lecture 11 Zoom
Python lists have a slightly different syntax. For example, if you want to create an array of all zeros with with two rows andCuda is the name of a type of CPU or processor. It can be used to identify a device or a class of devices.A thousand Dots are placed in four different blobs. The Center of each one of these was picked randomly. The standard deviation ofThe algorithm uses 10 hidden units to create a layer of 10 fully connected and then an output layer of four because we have four categories.Python is very ugly in Python so as least as possible so basically you have to use it in a couple of places though. okay TheThe Valu is sent through a series of layers before it is returned to the user. It is then sent through the sigmoidCNN.com's John Defterios explains how to get a prediction from a computer model. He says it's better to give itStochastic gradient descent is not a very good one. Let's give it a different learning rate and let's see what it canThe root mean mean square of the model is the rate at which the model learns. The learning rate is set to 99.5.The study learned data so well it didn't generalize to other data sets. The final training accuracy is 1.0 it memorizedThe training process is just taking chunks of data. It tends to smooth out the progress of these of the training because you're looking atIn pytorch we have what's called a data loader and the data loader is going to replace all this junk. It combines the"My measure of how well you did the test is the final exam," he says. "There's no difference between rolling your ownThe loss will come out and you'll just access it so you just have to make sure that whenever you use the loader the data thatAdam works really well in general at a grad kind of I think it uses a learning schedule and if you have a large nber of

CS505 Lecture 10 Slide View
CNN's John Defterios takes a look at how to get the best out of your network. He says it's important not toA neuron can pay attention to disperate parts of a sequence and do very  complicated kinds of analysis so we'll get into all ofYou can think of b as being a weight but there's no input and I'm going to show you a trick for how to doA one layer network is really just there's no hidden layer you have an output layer and you have the input layer. The input layerDeep networks can have errors in the floating Point arithmetic but tend to be wider than  . yeah. summarize: okay so wider networks donMachine learning is a type of supervised machine learning. supervised means label somebody hopefully not you spent 10,000 hours you know labeling there was"It doesn't fit neatly in my category," he says. "So maybe I'd have to say yeah they don't return inThere are 128 time 784 weights in here then an output layer which is going to have 10 neurons. and we put it through a"They can do one of two things they can explode or they can so basically sometimes bigger and bigger andbigger go through so they

CS505 Lecture 10 Full View
CNN's John Defterios takes a look at how to get the best out of your network. He says it's important not toNeural networks have been around since the 50s. Back propagation was Think of it as each letter is a vector like a one hotSigma appli is a way of writing the dot product as matrix multiplication. Instead of this Sigma appli to M *. x +Each neuron is going to have a bias in addition to its weights it has a bias and sometimes you're going to see this separately asThere's a lot of chance for parallelism in notationally to look at this from the point of view of matrices. matricesBinary classification is an easy way to talk about images. It can be used for anything. Machine learning is a type of supervised machineWhen you It's looking more like the logistic regression you have a threshold right a threshold. It's more likely to be a dogThis is a term frequency vector bag of words perhaps for 20 different words. Here's the bag of Words for the 20 most common wordsEach of the 10 matrices is represented by a two-dimensional 28x 28 gray scale. "They can do one of two thingsI saw you in the elevator I was thinking am I late for my class. yeah. no you go to your. exactly. no

CS505 Lecture 9 Slide View
A model is used to predict what the value of y should be given the X. y. The model is based on an equation likeIn machine learning we generally call this a cost function mean square error is only one of the possible cost functions. It's very simple toAs Z approaches Infinity positive Infinity this expression goes to one because this goes to zero. okay now we're asymptotically andAt 0.5 it's your decision boundary if you have to make a binary choice. It can give me the probability that someone isIn many places in machine learning they use a j for the cost function in my code. It stands for Jacobian because when you Cost functions always have very easy derivatives so there's the derivative along the B axis. and so you'll see that the cost functions justWe're going to stick with the term frequency model for the moment. Later on we'll get into sequence models. We'll start thinkingUsing the chain rule what you're going to get right here is this get your business comes out okay times the derivative of the function we

CS505 Lecture 9 Full View
The bias is the angle or the the slope the Y intercept the bias in the form of an equation like y = mx plus bSquaring is is equivalent to a distance function. If it's below the line the eror is negative. if it's above theThe approximation that the model is going to give us instead of being a linear trend line it's going to be this squishi line whichThe idea of outputting one or a zero that was an idea very early in neural networks it didn't work out very well. WeIn many places in machine learning they use a j for the cost function in my code. The j stands for Jacobian because when youCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for a

CS505 Lecture 8  Full View
I wanted to return to  the last lecture just for a moment and show you some of the challenges here. summarize: The principal componentsThere were 15 different strings draw strings of all of the for each one you know all the docents in each one of these categories."It's come to the point with hardware and with the developments in neural networks that it's just taking over," he says. "We curated our data and split it into a training and testing set. 99.9% is in the testing and .1% orThe data was curated by a team of data scientists. The data was split into three sets to test different parts of the data. TheWhen you s these all up here for a particular cluster J you're trying to minimize the distance between these two points that's squared inCNN.com's John Sutter looks at how a cluster is defined. Sutter: "You set the cluster to be the meanThe metric is take the distance s the squares do the same thing for that. Take all the distances inside the Clusters and s them90% of the optimizations here have to do with improving the initial allocation right you choose. "You might have a kind of two-

CS 505 Lecture 8 Slide View
Reducing the nber of dims corresponds to finding the most important ideas of the data. ItPCA preserves to the the sizeThere were 15 different strings draw strings of all of the for each one you know all the docents in each one of these categories.Machine learning has gone from rule-based systems to neural networks. It's come to the point with hardware and with the developments in neuralWe curated our data and split it into a training and testing set. 99.9% is in the testing and .1% orCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aThe data was curated by a team of data scientists. The data was split into three sets to test different parts of the data. TheEverything's colored blue the colors will give you the Clusters it's going to set it to the mean the average of all the XCNN.com's John Sutter looks at how a cluster is defined. Sutter: "You set the cluster to be the meanThe elbow method is to pick the point essentially where the this angle is as small as possible. The theory is that between two and three

Walkthrough Video for HW 03
A list can't be used as the key in a dictionary. A list can change and that screws up the whole idea of a hashA list comprehension is a way of trying to understand a word. It can take up to three hours to do a list comprehension. AYou don't have to check whether the key is in there before adding one to it. If it's not a default dictionary the firstCNN.com's John Sutter takes a look at how a CNN.com algorithm works. The algorithm is based on a single wordCheck the nerator if it's zero just return. zero right. that's all you need to do don't go and do theThe length should not include the s because that's not a choice the you're not perplexed at all that it started with s itAccording to the syntax in the training set the car's far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center periodThe default dictionary of words that can follow the prefix is a dictionary of the words that could follow it. Boy follows once baby follows twice"We'll always keep the best 20" is a popular quiz to test your knowledge of the English language. The test involves generating 10

CS505 Lecture 7 Slide View
The term frequency model is based on the idea that the nber of a word is equal to its lexical counterpart. The model canWhen two when two vectors are two  characters to sentences to whatever it is that you're modeling when the cosine is is close toThe vocabulary here is 1249 words spoken by those eight characters. Good luck visualizing that unless you have a different brain. The eThe inverse docent frequency means oh it's a it's kind of a. Inverse docent is a log of the term frequencyThere's no sense of this at all in a vector mode it's just these raw statistics about well this word occurred in this docentCNN's John Defterios looks at how neural networks could be used in the future. Defterio: "We're heading towardsThe band has been performing in Peru for the past two years. The group's music is inspired by the language and culture of the country

CS505 Lecture 7, Full View
The term frequency model is based on the idea that the nber of a word is equal to its lexical counterpart. The model canWhen two when two vectors are two  characters to sentences to whatever it is that you're modeling when the cosine is is close toThe eigenvectors are the in some sense the the vectors which show you  that sort of where the principal  variances inThe inverse docent frequency means oh it's a it's kind of a. Inverse docent is a log of the term frequencyThere's no sense of this at all in a vector mode it's just these raw statistics about well this word occurred in this docentCNN's John Defterios looks at how neural networks could be used in the future. Defterio: "We're heading towards"Latin language is just so weird. This is things just came together the sounds came together get together over Peru it's like really look

CS505 Lecture 6   Full View
CNN.com will feature iReporter questions in a weekly Newsquiz. Submit your questions at CNN.com/NewsquizThe Corpus is a way to pre-process your Corpus into sentences. The next time you use the Corpus, you can use it toCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aEvery task in natural language processing is based on the model. Right now we're using engrams and they are kind of slick for forThe confusion Matrix lists all the for a multi-classification problem. Extrinsic evaluation uses information that is outside the model.The perplexity metric in natural language is a way to capture the degree of uncertainty a model has in predicting that is assigning probabilities to text"It's too long it doesn't make sense but perplexity because you continue to take the roots you get a very low perplexityThe probabilities are zero for attack man outcome and all kinds of other words. What you want to do is smooth this. so it doesn

CS505 Lecture 6  Slide View
CNN.com will feature iReporter questions in a weekly Newsquiz. Submit your questions at CNN.com/NewsquizThe Corpus is a way to pre-process your Corpus into sentences. The next time you use the Corpus, you can use it toThis is a graph with Cycles so it can create an infinite nber of sentences right  you start here you roll the die whatever"I could sample  you know if there's 200 of you I can sample 30 of you and ask you privately of course whether youA language model can evaluate the goodness of sentences by assigning them a probability. Expert: Extrinsic evaluation uses information that is outsideA poorly written sense will have a small P Norm. okay they'll always be between 0 and 1.. but we want perplexity and"It should be less surprising from the previous model," he says. "There's no bigrams or anything. it's just oneThe chances of having words in the train set when you Music was a symptom of that the word for words you can see that if it

CS505 Lecture 5    Slide View
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for aThe entire methodology here is to use the evidence that you have. A harmonica is often used on a harmonic if you have good evidenceThe term frequency of attorney in a docent D is the nber of times that t occurs in D. The term frequency for CaesarThe word arachnocentric occurs in one docent you've all read some paper right some books this isn't some weird LatinThe technique can be used for all or all kinds of things the quantitative models. You can take characteristics of just about any kind of data"It's a bag of words is the whole vocabulary with the one in one place that's a word" "You can represent wordsWhen you have a raw strength it has these Roofing it will bind this to a variable you want to talk some more foreign do you

CS 505 Lecture 5 Th 9/21   Full View
CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel next Wednesday for aHarmonical tests are often used to test the sound of a harmonica. One of the tests is to see if you canThere's a million of these   million trigrams and there's one occurrence and that's the probability is one in a million youThe idea is to is to give rarer words more weight than more common words. rare words indicate more of what's going on inCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aThere's no relationship between the disjoint and the cosine. You'd have to have a positive and a negative scale in orderWhen you have a raw strength it has these Roofing it will bind this to a variable. If you want to talk some more foreign

HW 02 Walkthrough Plus Addenda
The assignment is to create a list of the top 20 dictionaries in the world. The top 20 are to be printed out at theSub for sub takes a regular expression that's the whole point of what we're talking about here. It replaces it with a string.CNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aThe regular expression is basically literal characters which can be concatenated. It's not just a matter of  having literal sequences substringsThis week Jarrett looks at the use of white space characters in a news story. It's just this right  letters upper lower case digitsIf you delete every sequence of characters ending in a new line you delete the whole thing. What you want is the string that starts atKeep the characters names at the beginning of the line so don't remove the colon after the name. If you want to remove something fromMultiple occurrences of apostrophe s very common. "They couldn't figure out who was saying it somebody in the background a character actor"NLC includes the apostrified form in its form of the word. The apostrophe is used to indicate that a word has been writtenIf you just take every word that's in these lists. and you do this kind of trick you'll have a default dictionary for theWatch What Happens is CNN.com's weekly, offbeat look at what's happening in the news. Jarrett ponders the useEvery place you want to match you have to have two of them. it's messy so figure out where to put it in a lower

CS505 Lecture 4 Th 9/14
Backus malware can generate words in the language so if your language includes things like b b e b e e and these are actually matchingThere are two encodings which we'll look at  two principles encoding is that will have developed. The first one is a oneMany machine Learning Systems will take a dictionary instead of a vector can use either one. A small sentence is going to have a very smallCNN.com's John Sutter shows you how to correct a grammatical error. Sutter: You would ask the question if youiReporters share their travel snapshots from around the world. iReport.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel SnapCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aCNN's John Sutter takes a look at some of the techniques used to analyze data. Sutter: "The gentleman is suggesting thatCNN.com's John Sutter takes a look at how a word generator works. Sutter starts with a list of words that areCNN.com's John Sutter has been working on a project to create a neural network that could be used for addiction treatment. S

HW 01 Walk-through
The Constructor list is a way to turn a set into a list. It can be used to turn any list into a set.The first time you run this, it'll tell you how to do a shell download and you can choose what you want to download.A string is a list of characters that's all it is so what you've essentially got to do is concatenate or append all library.com is a library that lets you import data from the internet. It can also be used as a database to search for dataWe don't want to distinguish upper and lowercase so turn everything into a lowercase first create a list of lowercase U's useUse the code that you did for  for this one  this one part D change a few things now I want to know the length

First steps in Python
This is a  a first video in using python intended for students in 237 and in 1 132. We're going to use the an python is weakly typed it does not have a strong type system. The type system is what says in java or c plus whatever thatAn array is an access using an index just like an array. An index is the location of index one. An array goes from zero"I can only concatenate a list with another list so it wouldn't let me do that," he says. "You'veDictionaries are one of the nicest ways to store information. If you make a copy of a list you have to worry aboutThe hash table is a hash table. You can't control what order things are in that's not the point it's for looking things

Getting started with notebooks for CS 237 homeworks
There are a number of ways to add a cell. You can use the menu, or you can use a shortcut. If you'reThere's another way to run cells if you go up here you see run all run you can run all below if you're here andThe most important thing to remember is you have to surround the expression which you want to be mathematically typeset in dollar signs. ThereThis pattern works for all kinds of different mathematical expressions like a s you use s underscore. If you remember how to do these kinds ofNber.nber is a factorial function that returns a floating point integer. It is written as a function of the number ofCNN.com will feature iReporter photos in a weekly Travel Snapshots gallery. Visit CNN.com/Travel each week for aIt hasn't been graded so you can't see the results you can see your submission history when you submitted things and so forth. so

Markdown Tutorial for CS 237
If you click and type b you've got to sell below so a first letter of the alphabet b next letter or below now this isIf you put a star an asterisk you can even put paragraphs and it will do a nice job of of of giving you bullet listsTo take a screenshot, you need to open it up in preview and use adjust size. You can also share the whole screen by going

Python and Jupyter Notebook Advice for CS 237
A is a default value for the argent list. b is a value that is given when you do not provide an argent.Python lets you redefine basically any name this will screw you up every time  watch this. It simply goes through every one of theseWatch the video again and again because the typos will drive you crazy. John Sutter talks about the importance of a good global memoryThis is a scatter plot of all the shapes you can use to make a map. It includes squares, triangles, diamonds, circles,

