CS505 Lecture 22 Slide View
 Many of the same techniques that we have learned for natural language processing could be applied to these . Modularity is a natural development of software Gpt2 4 was introduced this year and claims it's multimodal there are 16 different experts some of them devoted to the multim MP3 can be used to take measurements of the sound pressure level 4 4,100 times a second . Sound pressure levels are stored in Every tenth of a second they add another what's called a harmonic . They add another wave and they keep adding more and more waves and Using a library called Li brosa you can install it very easily and you can convert between these two you can take sounds and turn them This is a very simple example of audio processing of speech recognition . The problem will be when you have continuous sound right when there are continuous

CS505 Lecture 23 Full View
 Language was designed for the han auditory system which is logarithmic in nature . The analysis of the sound has to take place N starts very suddenly L kind of smacking little delay here . silence typically indicated little token like sill there's some silence in here because In 12% of cases people leave off the D in some cases, according to a paper . The D backwards is the e that's Spectr is a graph that collapses harmonics or overtones into a single node . It then factors out it finds these Overton theories "We wanted to take explicit song lyrics and then convert into something that's sensible," says the director of the film . He says the On Tuesday I'll say exactly what material will be covered . I feel like probably people can benefit from specif knowing exactly what they can

CS505 Lecture 24 Slide View
 This semester we've pretty much followed the textbook which I never asked you to read . We started with some very low think about tokenization Common Sense also tells you  you can't take the cigarette in and light it and wave it around I'm not smoking it can you "IIED it really hard. yeah that's how I was able to play the entire class like my back and are my back,"

CS505 Lecture 24 Full View
 This semester we've pretty much followed the textbook which I never asked you to read . We started with some very low think about tokenization Common Sense also tells you  you can't take the cigarette in and light it and wave it around I'm not smoking it can you "IIED it really hard. yeah that's how I was able to play the entire class like my back and are my back,"

CS505 Lecture 23 Slide View
 These units are actually mels which are not exactly their frequency but they're measured in a way that's  consistent with the han There is a translation between text and the pronunciation . It's complicated but they have to really pay attention especially to the vowels . Some Every word will have a certain Accent on it in most languages this this happens there's an accent on some part of the word . Spectr is a graph that collapses harmonics or overtones into a single node . It then factors out it finds these Overton theories A good example of the Transformer phase and they're just going to get better and better is whisper which is an open AI product or On Tuesday I'll say exactly what material will be covered . I feel like probably people can benefit from specif knowing exactly what they can

CS505 Lecture 22 Full View
 These units are actually mels which are not exactly their frequency but they're measured in a way that's  consistent with the han N starts very suddenly L kind of smacking little delay here . silence typically indicated little token like sill there's some silence in here because For male voices at least the 500 Hertz was the first forment of e . Continuous speech is now able to be process multiple languages Spectr is a graph that collapses harmonics or overtones into a single node . It then factors out it finds these Overton theories A good example of the Transformer phase and they're just going to get better and better is whisper, whisper which is an open AI On Tuesday I'll say exactly what material will be covered . I feel like probably people can benefit from specif knowing exactly what they can

CS505 Guest Lecture  Full View
 This is my alarm that NLP in the wild is what I'll call it because lately it seems a little wild what's going on This repo held all of the math questions  about  2400 of the MIT curricul so that you can go through and you can do Innovative llm Technical Solutions are part of Google's Elite 200 client portfolio . Laura will be showing you some other ways of using ll Prompt engineering is thinking about what it is that I send to the llm when I have a question I want to ask it right . There are now four different things that you can ask you're going to find that Google going to provide even more endpoints that are available CNN.com's John Sutter: "Without all dat don't give me me me are what yours are and what happened process"

CS505 Guest Lecture 21 Slide View
 NLP in the wild is what I'll call it because lately it seems a little wild what's going on in the commercial world with This repo held all of the math questions  about  2400 of the MIT curricul so that you can go through and you can do Innovative llm Technical Solutions are part of Google's Elite 200 client portfolio . Laura will be showing you some other ways of using ll Prompt engineering is thinking about what it is that I send to the llm when I have a question I want to ask it right . There are now four different things that you can ask you're going to find that Google going to provide even more endpoints that are available Google tried to take as many images as they could that were generated from Discord right basically Dolly . "We did not coordinate our outfits

CS505 Lecture 21 Slide View
 Liv Conert was a PhD student in a PhD program and started a couple of companies . She has gone on to Google and got a Reference resolution is really good at figuring out which pronouns go with nouns they refer to and you can see why this would happen if they The Prompt is in a shocking finding scientists discovered a herd of unicorns living in a remote previously unexplored valleys in the Andy mountains . Models emphasize a really wide context right here and optimized for that . Other models emphasize certain kinds of training or transfer learning . Most of the The foundation model was the 10 million $12 million TR of computing power training it on that . The fine tuning they did was on multiple The feeling is that having you know this has been part of NLP for a long time so you want to basically recognize these entities and

CS505 Lecture 21 Full View
 The Pick of things is right in the pick of things this semester . It's a talk by a woman who was in a PhD program Reference resolution is really good at figuring out which pronouns go with nouns they refer to and you can see why this would happen if they The Prompt is in a shocking finding scientists discovered a herd of unicorns living in a remote previously unexplored valleys in the Andy mountains . Models emphasize a really wide context right here and optimized for that . Other models emphasize certain kinds of training or transfer learning . Most of the The foundation model was the 10 million $12 million TR of computing power training it on that . It was distributed but the fine tuning they The idea of perplexity is that it normalizes and removes sentence length as any consideration whatever very very very s. summarize:  It

CS505 Lecture 20 Full View
 Linguistics is the most promising application to NLP evaluation . Linguists can contribute to good evaluation and good evaluation is through good She was " astronomically ahead of all the other candidates we're so luy to get her," he says . She was at The most important thing is how they process the in the input sequence which goes through how do they do it do they mask or not . Distill BT is actually an excellent choice because it is uninitialized so the question is how do you train in the original Transformer model EMB sets are already doing something like that but what they added was a paragraph . summarize: well so we have a lot of things This has a lot of information about how language works but notice it's just the encoder right and the loss was calculated on these two RNNs generates a whole bunch of worries he didn't worry about sentences . He suggested how to train an RNN the lst Network will learn what happens at the end of sentences you start a new sentence . Network will also learn when an end is used to start Sugg: "Let's take a break from slaughtering the natives or whatever I justed to do unfortunately it's always like this

CS505 Lecture 20 Slide View
 Linguistics is the most promising application to NLP evaluation . Linguists can contribute to good evaluation and good evaluation is through good Professor K says things go outdated really fast so we will actually have like new readings  for next semester . If you have any questions feel The most important thing is how they process the in the input sequence which goes through how do they do it do they mask or not . Distill BT is actually an excellent choice because it is uninitialized so the question is how do you train in the original Transformer model EMB sets are already doing something like that but what they added was a paragraph . summarize: well so we have a lot of things Professor Kim talked about various ways of measuring effectiveness in the study . He says the study was run on all kinds of benchmarks that have been RNNs generates a whole bunch of worries he didn't worry about sentences . He suggested how to train an RNN the lst Network will learn what happens at the end of sentences you start a new sentence . Network will also learn when an end is used to start Sugg: "Let's take a break from slaughtering the natives or whatever I justed to do unfortunately it's always like this

CS505 Lecture 19 Full View
 The code for this is on the web you can just plug it right drop it into your into your  implementations for both one and two The temperature or the topk is the most commonly used method of sampling . The distribution of the temperature and the distribution of top K sampling There are 512 words and for each of those there's eight puppies trying to figure out relationships between all the words . This is trained on A huge Vector of 512 is now going to essentially go through the  this phase and they're going to generate sentences . They basically generate "Teach" is a distilled form of the words "teach" and "teacher" is the most common form of a The engram language model is based on the language model used to train a computer to learn about the brown Corps . The model was developed The Transformer architecture is not fixed there's many many many different variations so it's not worth memorizing or learning incredibly hard what all Recalarrec algorithm doesn't care how long it takes to train to predict based on some amount of left context . Transformer algorithm I love exams because it's like it's  midnight mass for Catholics even if you don't come to church all year that's the

CS505 Lecture 19 Slide View
 The code for this is on the web you can just plug it right drop it into your into your  implementations for both one and two The temperature or the topk is the most commonly used method of sampling . The distribution of the temperature and the distribution of top K sampling There are 512 words and for each of those there's eight puppies trying to figure out relationships between all the words . This is trained on A huge Vector of 512 is now going to essentially go through the  this phase and they're going to generate sentences . They basically generate "Teach" is a distilled form of the words "teach" and "teacher" is the most common form of a The engram language model is based on the language model used to train a computer to learn about the brown Corps . The model was developed The Transformer architecture is not fixed there's many many many different variations so it's not worth memorizing or learning incredibly hard what all Recalarrec algorithm doesn't care how long it takes to train to predict based on some amount of left context . Transformer algorithm I love exams because it's like it's  midnight mass for Catholics even if you don't come to church all year that's the

CS505 Lecture 18 Slide View
 “You get information  when they typically agregate we'll see this a nber of times they add them together 512 5 together This is a way of making the network more flexible and that it can combine the effect of all of these different layers and  you get A residual connection is multiplying because that's a softmax which tells us how  how to use the outputs the activations from this layer Wayne is Professor of Cs 505 which is taught on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons . Wayne: "The whole point is not memor The glove embedding is the positional embedding of which word 0 1 2 and you add them so you would get the sorry s . SE. summarize:  The code is essentially doing this process 512 times in a row for 512 inputs . It's all line algebra. The strongest link always it is very strong but there are other ones too did you go back like to the slide about the animal well that There isn't a cord change more than once per B. We are doing retrial augmentation we links from where we are getting the The film is based on the work of computer scientists . The computer scientists say their jobs are boring, but their job isn't as exciting

CS505 Lecture 18 Full View
 “You get information  when they typically agregate we'll see this a nber of times they add them together 512 5 together This is a way of making the network more flexible and that it can combine the effect of all of these different layers and  you get A residual connection is multiplying because that's a softmax which tells us how  how to use the outputs the activations from this layer Wayne is Professor of Cs 505 which is taught on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons . Wayne: "The whole point is not memor The glove embedding is the positional embedding of which word 0 1 2 and you add them so you would get the sorry s . SE. summarize:  The code is essentially doing this process 512 times in a row for 512 inputs . It's all line algebra. The strongest link always it is very strong but there are other ones too did you go back like to the slide about the animal well that There isn't a cord change more than once per B. We are doing retrial augmentation we links from where we are getting the Computer scientists say their job would be boring if they weren't computer scientists . They say they are not afraid of the job they would have

CS 505 Lecture 17 (Zoom Recording)
 In NLP we flatten everything you can also flatten them and the convolution figures it out . The value in a neural network Convolution layers often get small you have fully connected you can see here a typical thing in  at least in  fully connected layer is Convolutional networks are very easy to put in with one caveat: the kernel size how big it is usually an odd nber . Use embeddings to create a default dictionary . The idea is that what does get do you can use get with any kind of dictionary When you add neurons it's easier to overfit but overfitting is good if you don't let it overfit . Overfitting means

CS505 Lecture 16 Slide View
 The model was created in a Cell where I created the model design or in a cell right above that and here's the training anyone comment CNN.com: "Be aware of what you're doing if you do that" The Mad plot is going to  P torch is Pickle works for any any python data, but it works for python data . It doesn't seems to have some update it needs to The way it works is to dynamically choose pieces of the training set for validation . It used the moving average of past squar gradients The main problem we're trying to address is overfitting . We don't want it to just memorize what's in the data set It works well in a network unlike a classroom or a company and it's exceedingly simple . It's simply going to take 40%  Chat GP does an excellent job in particular of explaining machine learning natural language process so I thought I'd end here was just sort of funny "It doesn't represent a lot of Val so kind of depend evu. and I that's one of the more you can so

CS505 Lecture 16 Full View
 The model was created in a Cell where I created the model design or in a cell right above that and here's the training anyone comment You should try to do this as consistently as Corpus 1961 has been updated a few times but hasn't changed in a while . Corpus 1961 Pickle works for any any python data, but it works for python data . You need to do a deep copy which takes all of The way it works is to dynamically choose pieces of the training set for validation . It used the moving average of past squar gradients Adam is usually  is is is a great Optimizer for many . It just memorizes everything in the data set it's got enough It works well in a network unlike a classroom or a company and it's exceedingly simple . It's simply going to take 40%  Chat GP does an excellent job in particular of explaining machine learning natural language process so I thought I'd end here was just sort of funny All of those are going to be done in parallel on a GPU that's the main advantage . "It doesn't represent a lot of

CS505 Lecture 15 Full View
 Transformers Soo gave me a slide 100 slides so I'm gonna try to give you some insights into it . It's so freaking complicated Many times these these these methods are are are used in pre-trained mode . Pre-processing cost is part of the whole thing . If you don't rerun the model it will keep the parameters and you can run the training it will just keep running . The model The average word edings are based on word to back and frequency of words used by different docents . We then refined it a bit German got this from Latin and Greek . It's actually there from the very beginning in ancient German and it's part of ancient induran This has to be trained using an immense amount of data and it's going to see a whole lot of sentences that are very similar .

CS505 Lecture 15 Slide View
 Transformers Soo gave me a slide 100 slides so I'm gonna try to give you some insights into it . It's so freaking complicated Words are more important so in your in 1D if you're having trouble  getting the thr. I suggest to get rid of the This is considered to be a kind of Baseline in a sense that it it it works pretty well . summarize:  If you don The average word edings are based on word to back and frequency of words used by different docents . Computer scientists would look up a In French in Romance langu typically I mean this came from Latin . This was a in Latin adjective can be anywhere but a very common thing Aims to make the transition between the encoder and the decoder more subtle and allow more interaction between the two but in a controlled

CS505 Lecture 14 Full View
 A friend of mine from  first time known for a long time Kathy go Martin works in political science . She's been using computer science You start off with the start symbol at each iteration you extend each of the sequences M times using the generative model . If you generate PES does some kind of PCA computation with a bunch of bells and whistles . They work really well but they're Static embed In a skip gr you have context on both sides  so here's a five a window of five words almost always almost always  you The training instances are going to be all of these pentagrams essentially with the one hot the multi hot giving you the context . The In both approaches we're using gradient descent to move similar words closer together and dissimilar words farther apart . It's not clear that PC PCA [Music] Happ is man as is to Woman, and you can do those with this this this nber di di di

CS505 Lecture 14 Slide View
 A friend of mine from  first time known for a long time Kathy go Martin works in political science . She's using  computer science You start off with the start symbol at each iteration you extend each of the sequences M times using the generative model . If you generate PES does some kind of PCA computation with a bunch of bells and whistles . They work really well but they're  Static Skip GRS is a word-prediction system . When you predict the context you predict co-occurring words from the target word The longer you train it the more accurately it will approximate the row of the table . Instead of having this co-occurrence Matrix which The training instances are going to be all of these pentagrams essentially with the one hot the multi hot giving you the context . The There's a couple of approaches to invent a unique token called unknown every word gets replaced with unknown . But we'll see any it too

CS505 Lecture 13 Full View
 The idea of generative BS is to be provided to the as the next input, but it really you can think of it as coming Transformers is going to be the basis for  we're going to add more and more complications We'll add something called attention and that is In the normal case we input a whatever we input it went through and we compare the label with the actual label . We use cross entropy The cost of a round trip from Denver to San Francisco is $100,000 less than a flight from San Francisco to San Diego . Twitter was founded in 2008 and is now known as X . Twitter is  Jane Villanova of United Airlines holding discuss the Chicago route . It can generate sentences that are longer than five the is not a the point here you run it until it generates the end of the sentence The first first assignment deadline was passed that is when I so should I MA my ass did you do it. summarize:  The first

CS505 Lecture 13 Slide View
 The idea of generative BS is to be provided to the as the next input, but it really you can think of it as coming Transformers is going to be the basis for  we're going to add more and more complications We'll add something called attention and that is In the normal case we input a whatever we input it went through and we compare the label with the actual label . We use cross entropy In each case it's an iterated classification problem anything can do with one right you can iterate through a sequence . summarize:  Twitter was founded in 2008 and is now known as X . Twitter is  Jan Villanova beginning is the Villanova inside of outside United Machine translation becomes very difficult when you get into other kind of sequence to sequence Transformations like machine translation . Translating is so they The first first assignment deadline was passed that is when I so should I MA my ass did you do it. summarize:  The first

CS505 Lecture 12 Slide View
 Recycled networks have been around for a while and they've really come on their own with this thing called forers . There's Linguists love to talk about how long sentences can be difficult to keep track of . Sometimes these long sentences you've got to keep "I'm going to do practically from now on is going to be unrolled through time but you have to understand that that's just The activation is actually coming around here so these are now a little different . summarize:  This is the same neuron at different moments in Conor McGreger: "A nice example of this is image captioning . You can see that the networks get pretty complicated you have The power really comes now when you start using embeddings and start generating senses doing this kind of work . We talk about how to MIT project is part of a course at MIT called AI Venture Studios . Currently we're just doing a large langage model we collecting data

CS505 Lecture 12 Full View
 Recycled networks have been around for a while and they've really come on their own with forers . There's a fundamental problem Linguists love to talk about how long sentences can be difficult to keep track of . Sometimes these long sentences you've got to keep "I'm going to do practically from now on is going to be unrolled through time but you have to understand that that's just In almost all the cases the first layer could be a gated recurrence unit layer . Data comes in gets manipulated by the recurrent layer Conor McGreger: "A nice example of this is image captioning . You can see that the networks get pretty complicated you have The power really comes now when you start using embeddings and start generating senses doing this kind of work . We talk about how to MIT project is part of a course at MIT called AI Venture Studios . Currently we're just doing a large langage model we collecting data iide:    I don’t think about that. summarize:  iide I don't. summary: 

CS 505 HW 04 Problem 2 Walkthrough
 Most of this you can get from my Zoom lecture on pytorch . At the end of the second file is  the complete template It's a very long array with two colns the first one is a string which is the email it's already been separated a bit Siri wants to get involved again in creating a dictionary . Remember it's a dictionary strings . Remember that it's dictionary strings if the string

HW 04 Problem 1 Walkthrough
 This is the walkthrough video for homework 4 . I recommend that you get used to this thing tqdm you can just Google it An array has 36 rows and one coln and that coln is the string of all the lines in the play concatenated together This is the this is the order in the file so just make sure that you keep the plays in the same order . summarize:  We're going to use a glove which is pre-trained on 400,000 words and a lot of text . The idea here is John Sutter: "They say maybe you didn't write it you know because there are weird things like this  what I did was

CS 505 Lecture 11
 CNN.com's John Sutter:  The world seems to be a complicated place this this this week, but that's that's The next possibility is it's not a dog there's no dog in it and your system correctly truly says nope no dog . Recall The accuracy of a four-way classifier for the blobs model that I talked about on the P torch lecture and it gets 90 The confusion Matrix is the confusion Matrix for a typical run of this . In the real world extra two dimensions don't really matter a cr There are more sensitive tests  in torch in various languages are ways to do that P torch there you could just look up early stopping P I've already had people coming to me just make an appointment we'll get on Zoom. and we'll talk about what your interests are

CS 505 Lecture 11 Zoom
 Python lists are similar to lists lists . If you want to create an array of all zeros with with two rows and five colns When you slice you know you can use  a range this is going to be zero and one and then give just a single nber You've got to specify it here when you create it or when you cast it you've got  to give it a version that's The data is the data  a th rows each example is a row and two colns that's the typical way you're going to The idea is that this is supposed to give you a nber telling you how likely it is to be in the zeroth group F is f is a transform meaning it's one of the functions that's used to transform data from torch Vision . We'll apply a Three or four layers is probably good, but it's kind of a hard hyperparameter you got to redesign the whole thing when you Softmax is a way to show what happens if you apply soft Max and what does softmax do  the first one . Softmax The 95% accuracy test is being added to a validation set and we're going to track the accuracy . It's great 95% but Machine learning is a tool that can be used in machine learning . We run this with SGD 100 epics of course the more ep You do not typically want to run one samp through at a time for lots of reasons . If you do multiple ones at the same In pytorch we have what's called a data loader and the data loader is going to replace all this junk . summarize:  The testing is supposed to be independent like another course not this one where you have a final exam that you don't have a chance after "It's not always a good idea to run it for more iterations. one it's wasteful. one of those things is wasteful. A lot of this is canonical right doing the training and the testing this is pretty standard and what I am going to have you do is

CS505 Lecture 10 Slide View
 The probability is the probability in the entire Corpus not in the testing in the training . The rest of it's fine the rest of the There are weights on all of these arrows floating Point nbers in the beginning they're initialized to random nbers . They're then passed Nonlinear activation function is critical because if you don't use that you're just doing linear regression and that's not very good it doesn A one layer network is really just there's no hidden layer you have an output layer . The input layer is not neurons they call it There's a lot of chance for parallelism in notationally to look at this from the point of view of matrices and matrices There were about 15 labels and each one of these docents has a label . That's your supervised machine learning data sets they have to Nbers won't be negative but they could be as large as you please . For the sigmoid for the T hyperbolic Each of the 10 matrices is represented by a two-dimensional 28x 28 gray scale . The floating points are normalized between 0 and It's been around forever since the 50, but you take it looks like a mean doesn't it, but multiply one times the log

CS505 Lecture 10 Full View
 The probability is the probability in the entire Corpus not in the testing in the training . The same phenomenon can occur in neural networks they can There are weights on all of these arrows floating Point nbers in the beginning they're initialized to random nbers . They're then passed Logistic regression can also be done with logistic regression . You're taking an input like X and multiplying it by some floating Point n Each neuron is going to have a bias in addition to its weights it has a bias . This enables a neuron to learn a function that Network networks are just a single layer . The input layer is not really a layer they call it a layer . It's matrix multiplication of Logistic regression is logistic regression as a binary classifier . It's a function from a vector and you learn the weights to make Nbers won't be negative but they could be as large as you please . For the sigmoid for the T hyperbolic The denominator here is the same for each one of them . It takes any sequence of nbers and performs the analogous operation to the Each of the 10 matrices is represented by a two-dimensional 28x 28 gray scale . The floating points are normalized between 0 and I saw you in the elevator I was thinking am I late for my class. yeah. no you go to your. exactly exactly exactly

CS505 Lecture 9 Slide View
 This is the only lecture I'll do on Zoom unless some cataclysm happens . Pytorch is most similar is most pythonic and The average squared error is a cost function in machine learning . Square error is only one of the possible cost functions . Square is equivalent to A formula for the sigmoid is based on the natural logarithms . A negative exponent is As Z approaches Infinity positive Infinity The probability that someone is male or female is much more useful than a straight-line model . The model is now able to predict a In many places in machine learning they use a j for the cost function in my code I just call it the cost . Gradient descent You want to find the absolute minim that would be the best possible model you could get now it may not ever be zero . Minima The algorithm is basically the idea of how you would build an algorithm for linear regression . It's really just the same as I showed you If you're wondering if something is Spam or or a con usually it's because they have weird punctuation you know great news how

CS505 Lecture 9 Full View
 Tuesday will be the only lecture I'll do on Zoom unless some cataclysm happens . The rest of the class will probably be on Monday The average squared error is only one of the possible cost functions in machine learning . Squaring a square is a function that can be used Z is a negative exponent and that makes this term close to zero so as e just think about the limits as as Z approaches Infinity positive We're in many cases we're going to say is this spam or not spam you can get a probability maybe that's good enough . Gradient descent with linear regression is a magic formula . It's a formula that you don't need to do right to do it right In logistic regression and in linear regression multi any nber of Dimensions you get because of the square of the mean square error you get

CS505 Lecture 8  Full View
 Reding the nber of dim and reding of Dimensions corresponds to finding the most important ideas of the data so to do it to In news, fiction, news and fiction, there were 15 different different different docents in each category . In fiction there were 20 doc The X and Y Dimensions have the most variation meaning they have the . most information . Things don't vary very much there's not a The perplexity of the training set or an arbitrary INF is different for the different imprs and then the results are also the results . The data was curated to be curated and curated . It was then randomly randomized to be tested . The data will be curated to make it Each point is assigned to its nearest Center so the center is really the mean of the cluster . Typical thing is the square of the distance The algorithm is essentially a hill climbing algorithm . It will change doesn't seem like it should change but it will . The metric is the This week's episode will be featured on CNN iReport at 9 p.m. ET . iReport: Share your knowledge of the The elow method is to pick the one where the angle is the smallest that would be that why between two and three you're making

CS 505 Lecture 8 Slide View
 Reding the nber of dim and dims corresponds to finding the most important characteristics of the data so you do it to a a In news, fiction, news and fiction, there were 15 different different different docents in each category . In fiction there were 20 doc The X and Y Dimensions have the most variation meaning they have the . most information . Things don't vary very much there's not a The perplexity of the training set or an arbitrary INF is different for the different imprs and then the results are also the results . Performance was the perplexity of the entire testing set and that gives you a nber . The cycle here is you prepare the data you Cluster can be a standalone tool for visualizing and understanding the data which is something we've done right visualize it . Cluster is not what The algorithm is essentially a hill climbing algorithm . It will change doesn't seem like it should change but it will . The clust is the This week's episode will be featured on CNN iReport at 9 p.m. ET . iReport: Share your knowledge of the We wanted intercluster distances to be as small as possible . 90% of the optimization here have to do with improving the initial allocation

Walkthrough Video for HW 03
 The first thing that we're going to do is  randomize your data set there's no reason to have them in order . Later A unigram looks like that if you write this that's just a variable W with parentheses around it this is a unary tu If it's not a default dictionary the first time you add it this is going to cause an error . You don't have to check Nothing will go wrong when we do the generative model because everything's from the training set all words are there all bigrams are there The other thing you can do is the back off  PN is a fixed size, not expanding and the sliding it doesn't apply C NLP is not in the training set and you're going to get a zero . and then everything else is zero you get everything The probability of this long sequence of tokens you've multiplied with all this fancy stuff back off and everything for each sentence then you're going The probability of baby following is point five and boy follows twice . The probabilities of baby follows are 0.5 and man is 0. Just generate 10 words order them order them in terms of perplexity and choose prune them choose the best 20 . Then from there after

CS505 Lecture 7 Slide View
 "I'm very loud  if I walk over there it disappears so I'm going to see if I can get a mic so I Elizabeth Swann: "They have a fair amount of similarity and then somewhere in between you know Jack Sparrow and Lord Cutler sort of fair Ally says the more important thing is the closeness of words . She says the cosine similarity in the full Vector space is just a Euclidean distance might be a little more I don't know what do you think it's a little better metric than the angle . Words occur together because they work together in a language based on their meaning on their semantics . There's no sense of this at all in The zeros mean you're in a much lower dimensional space because you're using relatively few of the dimensions for the mean . When you The model is simulating the idea why I wanted to change the model for part like if I'm speaking I decide what word is next

CS505 Lecture 7, Full View
 "I'm very loud  if I walk over there it disappears so I'm going to see if I can get a mic so I Elizabeth Swann: "They have a fair amount of similarity and then somewhere in between you know Jack Sparrow and Lord Cutler sort of fair Ally says the more important thing is the closeness of words . She says the cosine similarity in the full Vector space is just a Euclidean distance might be a little more I don't know what do you think it's a little better metric than the angle . Words occur together because they work together in a language based on their meaning on their semantics . There's no sense of this at all in The zeros mean you're in a much lower dimensional space because you're using relatively few of the dimensions for the mean . When you The scent is delicious sauteed with garler is superb over rice . It's a borrowing Chinese  suppose you see these scent you

CS505 Lecture 6   Full View
 The electric field in the house went up by a hundred dollars possible to run in my machine constantly . The rest of the assignments are going A testogram is a word generator that generates one word at a time and uses less context . When you have a bigram one word Like yeah likes is just one so likes occurs four times there's nothing else that there's no other byground that starts likes likes . Script has Loops so it has an infinite nber of sentences . Another way to think about this is to expand it out to a Extrinsic evaluation uses information that is outside the model . For example, in the case of a trigram, the trigram A language probabilistic language model is to assign a probability to Strings attention of words . Plexity is large for bad senses or The formula is based on intuition it shows reported by the formula if I say to you. summarize:  Remember low perplexity good good The probabilities are zero for attack man outcome and all kinds of other words . What you want to do is smooth this so it doesn't

CS505 Lecture 6  Slide View
 The electric field in the house went up by a hundred dollars possible to run in my machine constantly . The rest of the assignments are going A testogram is a word generator that generates one word at a time and uses less context . When you have a bigram one word Like yeah likes is just one so likes occurs four times there's nothing else that there's no other byground that starts likes likes . The script has Loops so it has an infinite nber of sentences . Another way to think about this is to expand it out to Extrinsic evaluation uses information that is outside the model . For example, in the case of a trigram, the trigram The perplexity metric in natural language is a way to capture the degree of uncertainty a model has in predicting that is assigning probabilities to text The probability of the one that begins is 0.5 . The probabilities of each one of these are one half to the sixth power I The chances of having words in the train set when you have a lot of data and it's randomly randomized are randomly randomized . An unknown

CS505 Lecture 5    Slide View
 "I'll hand out to Friday when I have all day to think about and then make them this Thursday is that okay is that good John likes to play Beethoven's Symphonies on a harmonica very rare sentence . There's no occurrence of the word harmon The term frequency of attorney in a docent D is the nber of times that t occurs in D so it is straightforward so here Not is a significant word not is a very frequent way of saying the negation of something and just because it's frequent doesn't mean Wayne plays Beethoven Symphonies on the Vermont . Wayne plays Beethoven symphony on the Vermont. Wayne The cosine goes from one to one to zero your measurement of how similar docents are is from zero to one one one is identical When you have a raw strength it has these Roofing it will bind this to a variable you want this table I usually move it this

CS 505 Lecture 5 Th 9/21   Full View
 "I'll hand out to Friday when I have all day to think about and then make them this Thursday is that okay is that good A harmonica test is often used on a harmonic if you have good evidence for that well there's one of them don't you have There are five occurrences of the bike ramp in a Million that's five divided by a million times point . The term frequency of attorney in The word arachnocentric occurs in one docent's book . It's a sledgehammer, not some weird Latin word Wayne plays Beethoven Symphonies on the Vermont . Wayne plays Beethoven symphony on the Vermont. Wayne Regular expressions in Python produce though that's the query and it builds a bad word the term frequency vector . Then your problem is you've There's two words a cold in fact an angel. summary:  There's    an angel . summary . summary. summary

HW 02 Walkthrough Plus Addenda
 The bag of words will be combined with the wrangling of individual characters . The wrangling is a very small you know fussy level Piazza is a homophone spelled the same two different meanings character like ASCII character printing out a thousand characters . The ASCII characters are Every place to see a lowercase a replace capitalized place with an uppercase a . The ASCII chart has a bunch of tabs CNN.com will feature a series of photos of a bicycle that replaced blank blank with a blank . The regular expression is basically literal characters Alphaneric stands for character class zero one two three four five six seven eight nine . s stands for white space characters in other words A string that starts at the beginning and has a new line will match the first match it gets to it's not going to keep going There are colons at the beginning of this article . I think they're all at the beginnings . I can't guarantee that there's The bag of words model will be manipulated statistically or you know you do some kind of analysis and a few errors here and there aren't There are eight official forms of the verb to be just look up eight forms of today on the web . All of them occur in the From collections import the default dictionary . If you look up something that's not in the dictionary it returns not present . If I print it This isn't really a regular expression it's a string which can have some variables in How do I how do I get rid of the If you want to do a really good job and get it very accurate you could do this don't do it here . summarize: 

CS505 Lecture 4 Th 9/14
 The first thing you think of doing well is to represent it as a sequence of ASCII codes . This is a terrible idea it doesn't The maxim length of the word in the brown Corpus was a Scurry word that was 33 characters long . The idea of a word embedded The vocabulary of the messages that you put on Piazza is not but not least one to think that it's an advertisement dollars for Bag of words is a simple idea but it tends to work very well . The bag of words are encodings of all the words Accidental correspondence is an attempt to measure the probability of a sentence or a sequence of words . The probability is the probability here's m CNN.com's John Sutter writes a book on the probability of finding out what the next word is when multiply what's the name The typical thing to do if we want to stay within this framework is that when you start you use a bigram because you're only Google stopped this in 2019 moved on other projects but you can look this up engrams it's an engram viewer it's a really Theme search generates sentences based on form based on the form but what we're going to add to this is a global evaluation of How likely We're poor and overpopulated computer science rich and overpopulation I didn't have anything to do with anyway good luck thank you absolutely

HW 01 Walk-through
 Constructors are very useful and can be used to turn a list into a set or a list . They can also be used for lists It builds a dictionary from a list counting how many times things occur . It's a great great thing to use and you're going to These are paragraphs from reviews you can't access as far as I know I haven't looked at the Articles . This is how to conc Python 3.6 uses the idea of an F string that's a great technique . Print out a bar chart of the percentages that each The most common word length is three . There's a ton of words of like three if you were doing Wordle you'd be interested Use a list comprehension with a condition and only allow the ones that are normal words then go through and use your counter in the same old

First steps in Python
 This is a  a first video in using python intended for students in  237 and in 1 132 . The style of the language is python does a couple of annoying things with respect to this memory . It is storing variables or functions names in a global memory and you are strings in python can have a single quote see multiple characters here . You can have double quotes or single quotes or double quotes . An access Use range statements to go through the list through the indices . simulate the for loop that goes from the beginning to the end but doesn't Dictionary operations are lookup it looks exactly like a list right look up d . If you make a copy of a list you have to worry A hash table means sometimes you can't control what order things are in that's not the point it's for looking things up . But

Getting started with notebooks for CS 237 homeworks
 This is the basically the standard way of presenting things when you do data analysis so you're going to use it . If you do have In markdown language it will make it into italics if you put two stars on each side you have to do it on both sides The most important thing to remember is you have to surround the expression which you want to be mathematically typeset in dollar signs . This You have to do everything with the double dollar signs you have to put two dollar signs around it or it won't do it . This Npy random library allows you to make very nice looking mathematics very simply . If there were no repeated letters it's a permutation it The python function is a python function which is going to plot some graphs . We will give you the formatting and you can just cut and It hasn't been graded so you can't see the results . You can see your submission history when you submitted things and so forth .

Markdown Tutorial for CS 237
 The subtitle of this notebook is how to write beautiful answers in your 237 homeworks . If you want to  create cells in the notebook A br will simply give you a carriage return it's convenient . If you put a star at the beginning you have to put a space The screen capture is a screen capture of the screen capture . It's too big when you double click on it at least on the mac

Python and Jupyter Notebook Advice for CS 237
 This is the file from the website and as i've said to you i keep this open when i'm programming . Remember that when you List comprehension is available in many languages like haskell and okamel and so forth . Python's dynamic memory lets you redefine basically any There's a typo which is really hard to see right. i would try to use different names you know here's where i talk through The rest of this  folks  is all basically what i did in the first assignment but i would ask you to look down here and

